[QUESTIONER] If that's the case, how is it possible that one single person, like you or me, is able to predict...
.. what is going to happen, when the whole thing is robust in consensus decision-making? Thank you.
[ANDREAS] Yeah, that's a good question.
The simple answer is that Bitcoin runs a certain set of rules and those rules can't be changed unless...
.. everybody agrees. By "agrees," that means you run the software that expresses the rules that you want.
But if you don't do anything different, Bitcoin does not change. That's the whole point.
The consensus rules remain the same.
So, for example... I'm a U.S. citizen right now. We just had an announcement by the Federal Reserve that...
.. they're going to raise interest rates. This was at the last Friday meeting that they announced. They said...
"Maybe once more this year."
So I know what the interest rate will be next week. I don't know what the interest rate will be next year.
I know what the "interest rate" will be for bitcoin in the year 2142, down to eight decimal points.
Why? Because I can read the code. It's right there. That's one of the rules that's not going to change, because...
.. if you change that rule, it's not Bitcoin anymore. I can guarantee you: Bitcoin will never create 21 million coins.
That's the upper limit. We will never reach it. We will get twenty million, nine hundred & ninety-seven thousand...
.. and then it will stop. Why? Because that will never change. Because if you try to change that rule...
.. I will say "no." Most of the other people who are interested in Bitcoin will say "no."
If you split off the network, you can call your thing "Buttcoin," we'll keep calling our thing "Bitcoin," and...
.. we'll just keep the old rules.
That certainty... It gives me a set of rules that are based on mathematics, [where] I can look into the future.
I know exactly when - down to the block number - the distribution of bitcoins will reduce by half.
In the year 2038. I can tell you which block number today, because it's mathematics.
That's what gives us control. It's that this is not based on arbitrary decisions by people, it's based on mathematics.
Now, some people don't like that. Some people want to have the ability to make political choices,
.. to elect people who make choices for them, to change their mind, to have "flexibility" in the system.
For that, Bitcoin isn't good, because Bitcoin is inflexible.
If you want 24 million coins, sorry. We're not going to do that. It's going to be 20.997 [million], done.
If you want certainty, if you want predictability, if you want hard mathematical rules, Bitcoin might be an...
.. interesting choice for you. If you don't, you can pick another digital currency or system of organisation.
That's what we get. We get a level of certainty.